COMP 1589  
Lab week 8  
Task  1: A simple  IF statement  
Task  2: Mondrian  Generator  
the results of our code in the HTML pages itself. One method of doing this is to use the HTML5 
http://www.w3schools.com/html/html5_canvas.asp  
94 
To help you, you have been given the code  (line 38 ) for the turnfNameIntoColour() function 
many  letters, is greater than 6 ( fName.length > 6 ). If it is, then the function returns the colour as 
age is less than 30, the  colour  is yellow , otherwise  the colour is  red. 
Task  3: Mondrian  Generator  with user  input  
Re-save your code  from task  2 as task3.html.  
For task 4 you are to create  a text box for the user to enter  their name  into and a button  that when 
1. Comment  out the function  call draw()  on line 74, we want  to use a button  to call the 
2. In the html create  a text box with id ‘fName’  and a button  that calls function  draw()  when 
3. Remove  the hard coded  value  assigned  to variable  fName  (see line 61 below)  and add the 
code necessary to get the value form the text box you created above in step 1. (This 
1. Why  have  I used a drop-down  list for eye colour  and not just provided  another  text box?  
2. In the example I showed in the lecture I had alert boxes popping up if I did not enter 
Page 1  School of Computing and Mathematical Sciences  
COMP 1589  
Tutorial 9  
Task 1: “Art Balling” Generator  
Page 2   
of all trying to understand what the 2 functions will do. You will notice that the 
coloured squares. The drawSplatter function utilises a loop to draw 10 circles of random shapes 
and positions dependent on 4 parameters (size,xPos,yPos,colour) passed to the function.  
around line 37 before the closing script tag.  
Your task is to take the above code and using either a for loop or a while loop, draw 10 
produces a random number of “normal circles” and “circle splatters” betwee n 1 and 20.  
randomColour = "hsl("+ 360*Math.random() + ",50%,50%)";  
Page 3  Task 2: “Spot” Generator  
during the 1990s” ... “Hirst's best known works are his 
Page 4   
When you run this code you will notice that only one line of 9 horizontal “spots” appears. Your 
task is to use a nested loop to produce the full painting, which is comprised of 9 horizontal 
“spots” and9 vertical “spots”.  
30 assignment) and uses a counter called i.  