Page 1  School of Computing and Mathematical Sciences  
COMP 1589  
Tutorial 9  
 
Loops in JavaScript  
 
Introduction  
In this week’s lecture you were told about loops in JavaScript. In this tutorial you will 
explore these concepts by creating some simple programs that use the HTML Canvas  
 
Task 1: “Art Balling” Generator  
“ Former  England cricket captain Michael Vaughan 
has found a new use for that pull shot: whacking 
paint -daubed balls at canvas to produce highly 
collectable works of art. Watch out, abstract 
expressionism - here comes 'artballing'” – 
 
The following code is the “skeleton” for a program 
that will generate a very simple version of a 
Michael Vaughan painting using a combination of 
functions and loops. You were shown the 
completed code during the lecture.  
 
 

Page 2   
This will not currently run as it requires code that utilises the given functions. Spend time first 
of all trying to understand what the 2 functions will do. You will notice that the 
drawFilledCircle function is very similar to the function you used in the  last tutorial to create 
coloured squares. The drawSplatter function utilises a loop to draw 10 circles of random shapes 
and positions dependent on 4 parameters (size,xPos,yPos,colour) passed to the function.  
 
Calling the functions in a loop  
The following code can be used to create one “normal circle” and one “circle splatter”. Insert it 
around line 37 before the closing script tag.  
 
 
Your task is to take the above code and using either a for loop or a while loop, draw 10 
“normal circles” and “circle splatters”. Once you have done this modify your code so that it 
produces a random number of “normal circles” and “circle splatters” betwee n 1 and 20.  
 
 
Random colour optional method  
randomColour = "hsl("+ 360*Math.random() + ",50%,50%)";  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 3  Task 2: “Spot” Generator  
“Damien Steven Hirst is an English artist and the most 
prominent member of the group known as "Young British 
Artists" (or YBAs), who dominated the art scene in Britain 
during the 1990s” ... “Hirst's best known works are his 
paintings, medicine cabinet sculp tures, and glass tank 
installations. For the most part, his paintings have taken 
on two styles. One is an arrangement of color spots with 
titles that refer to pharmaceutical chemicals, known as 
Spot paintings. ” 

Page 4   
 
The above  code is the “skeleton” for a program that will generate a very simple version of a 
Damien Hirst Spot painting using a combination of functions and loops. You were shown the 
completed code during the lecture.  
 
When you run this code you will notice that only one line of 9 horizontal “spots” appears. Your 
task is to use a nested loop to produce the full painting, which is comprised of 9 horizontal 
“spots” and9 vertical “spots”.  
You can do this by creating another for loop, which surrounds the current for loop (and xPos = 
30 assignment) and uses a counter called i.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
